hi this is pressure Locker in this video
I'm going to go over some comparison
shopping math so that you can get the
best value when you're shopping at the
supermarket
all the examples in this video are based
on prices I saw on my recent trip to the
supermarket so let's do a first example
let's say you're buying toilet paper and
one package has 24 rolls for $6.99 and
another package has 72 rolls for $17.99
which option is cheaper I'm going to
explain a method so that you can figure
this out in your head very quickly the
first step is you should round the
numbers to the nearest dollar because
that'll be good enough for our
estimation purposes the next step is I
want you to get the two quantities equal
and the method we're going to use is
we're going to scale up the smaller size
so in this case 24 rolls is the smaller
size and we're going to scale this up
until it's 72 rolls so if we buy one
package we get 24 rolls if we buy two
packages we're going to get 48 rolls and
it will be a cost of $14 if we buy a
third package we'll end up with 72 rolls
for a cost of $21 and that brings us to
step three which is now we have two
quantities of 72 rolls and we simply
need to pick the one which is cheaper so
it's very obvious that $72 72 rolls for
$18 is the better value so in this case
72 rolls for $18 is better than 24 rolls
for $7 let's do another example let's
say you're shopping for oatmeal and one
container has 18 ounces for $1 49 and
another package has 42 ounces for 299
which package offers the better value
we'll go through our three-step process
well first round the numbers to an even
amount
because that will be good enough for
estimation purposes then we'll scale up
the smaller size so if we buy two
packages of the 18 ounce of oatmeal
we'll end up with 36 ounces of oatmeal
for three dollars now in this case we
don't have the exact same quantity for
both packages in one case we have 36
ounce and in another we have 42 however
what we do have is we have the same
dollar amount for two different amounts
of oatmeal so would you rather get 36
ounces for three dollars or 42 ounces
the answer is easy you're going to want
to pick the one which is giving you more
oatmeal for three dollars so in this
case 42 ounces is a better value in a
third example let's say you have 10
ounces of potato chips for a dollar 99
or 16 ounces for $2.99
which is cheaper we'll first go ahead
and round the numbers then we'll try
scaling up the smaller size so if we buy
two packages of the 10 ounce potato
chips we'll end up with 20 ounces for 4
dollars
now unfortunately unlike our other
examples neither the quantity matches
nor the dollar amounts match so we
cannot directly compare 20 ounces of
potato chips versus 16 ounces so we're
going to need to do something different
what we'll do is we'll figure out the
unit cost for the 10 ounce package of
potato chips so if 10 ounces cost $2
that means every ounce of potato chips
in that package cost 20 cents and now
what we'll do is we'll scale that up to
16 ounces so buying 10 ounces or $2 is
basically the same as buying 16 ounces
at a rate of 3.20 cents now we can
compare the two options and
we can conclude that buying the 16 ounce
package of potato chips for three
dollars is the better value let's do a
final example of soda pop you have two
options one is a two-liter bottle for
one dollar the other is 24 cans for
$5.99 which option is the better value
we'll go ahead and round the number
$5.99 now instead of scaling up directly
we're going to need to convert some
units because the two-liter bottle is
based on the metric system and the 24
cans are based in ounces so how can we
convert ounces into liters well luckily
if you take any can of soda it's already
written on there a 12 ounce can of soda
is roughly equal to 355 milliliters or
0.355 liters so doing a little bit of
math that means 1 liter is roughly 2.8
12 ounce cans or a two-liter bottle is
roughly 5.6 cans so now we're comparing
the options of 5.6 cans for a dollar
versus 24 cans for $6 and we can go
ahead and scale up the smaller size so
if we buy four two-liter bottles that's
roughly getting twenty two and a half
cans for four dollars we finally need to
pick the cheaper option so in this case
once again neither the quantities nor
the dollar amounts exactly match but you
can see that on with the two-liter
bottle you're basically paying the rate
of 22 and a half cans for four dollars
which is almost twenty four cans so the
question is for about 24 cans do you
want to pay six dollars or do you want
to pay four dollars and it's obvious the
cheaper option here is the two-liter
bottle so I wanted to include this
example because
it's not always the case that buying in
bulk is going to be cheaper I hope you
liked this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can also check me out on my
blog mind your decisions or on twitter
at Prussia tall Walker